Hello and welcome and this lecture, we've got our A.I. that is following us around the world.
We'll go and investigate when he loses sight of me.
So it is quite hard to lose.
But if I go to many corners away, he's not going to be able to keep up.
And eventually he's going to lose interest and go back to his start location over there.
That's what we're gonna be implementing in this lecture by finishing off our behavior tree task.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
So we want to get our task to execute, to actually do something.
And particularly we wanted to be able to clear that Blackbaud value do what it says on the tin.
So how do we go about doing that?
Well, for that, we need to go up to our base class and have a look at what's implemented there.
In fact, we need to go up one level higher, which as you can see from the inheritance of The View
Beaty task.
Blackboard base.
Above that, we have the UBC task node.
So let's use F twelve to navigate to the implementation there.
And if you scroll up to the top of the Beatty task node dot h.
Head of file, you can see there's the information about this class.
And the most important thing is that these are the virtual functions that we're most likely to want
to implement.
So the first one is execute task.
This is called when the task starts to execute.
We then have a Bortz task, which is when it's decided that we need to stop executing, for example,
because a condition has become false.
And we've got that signaling set up.
So it aborts this task tech task.
Happens all the time that the task is executing, but not the first take.
So the first tick we'll call execute task thereafter will keep calling TEQ task every time.
And that's for behaviors that might run for longer than one tick.
Such as moving to an enemy might take multiple takes.
So take task allows us to do something every tick.
And on message is for other things other than aborting that might send a message to this task.
We don't really have to worry about this particular function.
So the first three are really the ones were more interested in.
And seeing as our task is simply just going to clear the blackboard value.
As soon as it is executed, then then it's going to finish.
Straight away doesn't need to do things across multiple takes.
We're interested in the execute task.
So if we search in this head of file for execute task, you can see the full signature is here.
And the return type here is this IBT node result.
And it takes in two things.
The owner components and the node memory.
Now, the reason it takes in node memory is a little bit complicated.
But the important thing to know here is that a task class ID or task class instance.
There's only one of them Per.
All of the blackboards, essentially, they get shared between everything.
Which is why if you want to save some information that's related to a node in one particular behavior
tree, then what you need to do is store it in this memory pointer.
But we're not going to be doing anything related to that.
It's a little bit more advanced to need to do that.
And there are other ways to get around this, such as allowing unreal to create multiple instances for
every behavior tree, which might be a little bit Nito or not.
But this is a slightly more efficient way and we don't have to worry about it.
Ultimately, what we're interested in is the fact that we can get to our own component, the behavior
tree component, and from there we can get to other things such as the porn, et cetera.
But that's also the subject of another lecture.
So what's interesting and important now is just to implement and execute task.
So I'm gonna copy the signature, go over to our clear blackboard value.
Dot h.
And let's just see, is this public?
No, I think this is going to be protected because it's in the default section.
So in a create ourselves a protected section and pasted in there and then we're gonna go ahead and create
the imp or put an override just to make sure.
Be safe.
And then we're going to create an implementation over in the C++ remembering that we always want to
be calling to super when we're overriding so super execute task with the owner components and the node
memory being called up to our parent here.
And then what we want to do is get hold of our blackboard so that we can clear the key.
And there's two things that are important here.
Fassel.
How do we know what Key was selected?
Well, if we go to our blackboard based on H, you can see that one of the methods there is get selected
blackboard key so you can easily just call this ADC plus plus get selected blackboard key and that's
going to return.
If we hover over it, it returns an F name, the F name of the blackboard key that was selected in the
behavior tree.
Now the other thing we need to do is to be actually actually able to get hold of the blackboard related
to this behavior tree.
So for that, we've got our own comp.
Now, notice here that the type of owner comp being passed in here is actually a reference, not a pointer.
So it can't be.
No, for a start, that's great.
But it also means that we need to use the dot operator rather than the at the arrow operator because
we're not using a pointer.
And from here, we can simply get blackboard components.
So that just gets the blackboard component if you hover over it.
This one is a pointer to a blackboard component, so you will need to use arrow operators.
So we already know how to clear keys on blackboard.
Opponents.
That's going to be your challenge.
So hopefully the challenge is not too complicated.
You want to clear the selected key.
We you can check where we've done this before.
Do you need any includes in order to do this?
Maybe the blackboard needs and include use the key selected in your behavior tree as the key that we
want to clear.
So pause the video and have a go.
Kay, welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
So the first thing is we've got our blackboard components.
Use the arrow operator here.
Nothing is coming up.
So I'm assuming that I need and indeed, there's some red squiggles I need a hash include here to do
the behavior tree and then the blackboard component here and now.
Hopefully my autocomplete should be working, which will allow me to have the clear.
Let's just try and refresh our memories.
Where have we done this before?
If we go over to Chuter, I controller see P.P. and have a look at what we've got here.
We've got clear value.
That's the one we're looking for.
So let's try that clear value.
And what's it taken?
It takes in either an F key or an F name.
Great F name we can get.
And where did we say we could get that with the.
Get selected blackboard key that is on this class because it's in the parent class.
So get selected blackboard key.
And it's as simple as that.
We're clearing the value of the selected blackboard key.
Now, one final thing we need to do.
This wasn't partly a challenge, so don't worry if he didn't know this is that we need to return because
there is a return value for our clear blackboard value execute task.
And the return value is quite interesting.
Let's have a look.
Let's follow it with an F 12th and see what different statuses we can return from our execute task.
Now, the first one is succeeded.
Great.
That basically signals to the behavior tree that this node is finished executing and we can move on
to the next one.
Failed again.
This is a finished so we can move on to the next one.
But this time it's saying that it failed.
So that gives the different indications to, for example, our sequence nodes or our selected nodes
as to what those nodes should actually be doing.
Then we have got aborted, which is basically the same as failure.
And we have in progress.
If you return in progress from an execute task, it's basically going to say you've got to keep calling
tick until I tell you otherwise, until I say that I have finished.
Now, we're not gonna be using this, but it's good to keep in mind that if you need to create a task
that is long running, will run across multiple ticks, then we're going to have to return in progress.
But as I said, we want succeeded.
So let's go in and do that.
Return EBIT node result.
Colon, colon.
And it is going to be succeeded because we succeeded to clear that value.
Basically, no matter what.
So we can go ahead and save all of this, go over into the editor and hit compile.
And when that's complete, let's go ahead and open up our A.I. and the behavior tree.
So where's that one BTC enemy A.I. it to the main window.
And it's how we got our clear Blackbaud value should now be able to allow us to move to last known location,
clear the blackboard value, wait for five and then we should see that are investigating this not last
known place.
Location should be unset.
So we should move back to our start location.
So let's see if this behavior is now working.
Now that the task is fully implement.
So he's coming over to me.
He's investigating me.
I'm gonna go and hide.
So let's go and hide.
Who is coming to investigate?
Let's go and hide again.
So go and hide.
Let's see if we can spot him over there.
He should be waiting at the moment.
And then he's going back to his start location, which unfortunately makes him intersect with me.
So let's see if this is actually working, as we expect by bringing out an enemy A.I. window and docking
over to the right and putting our main window over on the left.
It's a little bit cramped, but we can we can make do and then we're going to try and escape this guy
one more time and see what happens with his behavior.
You can see he's moving to the last known place location.
And now he is waiting, having cleared the value and then you can see he's going to move to and you
can see these red bars on, the decorators are telling us that neither of these two conditions are true.
So he can't do either of those families moved to the start location.
So it now it's flickering because basically it can't do anything.
So that basically is that this lecture we've seen how we can get the Beattie tasks to execute code,
understood the different statuses that you can return from execute task, how to get the black board
from the task, and also how to get the currently selected key on a blackboard task in the next lecture.
We're going to see how we can get hold of the world outside of the blackboard behavior tree, how we
can get hold of the porn from within a behavior tree task.
I'll see there.